So up till now we've spoken a lot about why you should do crowdfunding and why it's really useful and
what the benefits are.
But it's really important to be aware of the pitfalls while you're in the research phase as well.
So let's talk about some of those common pitfalls that you might not have thought of when you embarked
on your crowdfunding journey.
So one of the first thing you have to realize is that by putting your product under Kickstarter or to
Indiegogo or any of these public websites it becomes in the public domain so everybody will be able
to see your idea before it's ready.
Of course ideally by the time that you're listing your product onto Kickstarter you should be at the
point where you're about to start manufacturing or at least you're ready to start making the product
and you should not be in your R&D phase where you're you know testing to see if it's possible.
And the reason why I say this is because there are a lot of professionals who are usually based in China
who cross these Web sites like Kickstarter and you go looking for ideas that they can clone.
So if you've never been on the Web site Alibaba or Ali express dot.com then have a look at it because
you will find a lot of clones of what you've seen on these crowdfunding sites.
So what people tend to do is that they cross these Web site looking for ideas they have behind them
a huge factory or contacts at factories who can produce these products like this lightning fast.
And we mentioned earlier about fidget cube.
So a cube is a really really simple concept.
It's a six sided die that has buttons or switches or things that you can twirl and the IP behind it
is really really simple which anybody can clone and they do.
So if you have a look and compare how much it was sold on Kickstarter to backers versus Uganda alley
Express you can see that these cubes are being sold for one dollar fifty three per unit including shipping
to the U.S. or UK.
That is absolutely nuts and I still can't wrap my head around just how low a margin that people are
willing to work with because I mean even the plastic even the shipping is going to eat its way through
that one dollar fifty three right.
I mean the people who are producing this and selling this are making a really really thin margin and
hoping that by selling it in bulk with large volume they're still going to make a profit.
So if you've ever been on Ali express it is mind blowing.
Varians where you can find things like wireless Bluetooth headset for like two dollars.
It's completely mental.
This clone came out before that Kickstarter had even finished.
So while that Kickstarter was running and backers would be waiting months and months before they could
actually get their hands on product.
There were already vendors in China that was selling a clone that you could get right now and you can't
underestimate how much our generation needs things right now or as fast as possible.
It's all about instant gratification.
So why am I telling you all of this.
Well it's important to know that even if you have IP even if you have patented your designs or your
or your functionality in the US or the UK basically in the West you have to be aware that going after
these people who are based in China is virtually impossible.
The international laws just don't make it that easy and the legal costs are just not worth it.
At the end of the day.
So how do most people get screwed in these situations.
Usually what happens is that somebody with an idea will create a kickstarter.
And of course before launching their product as we suggested they will scout out all the factories and
find a manufacturing partner.
Now Usually that happens in China because the manufacturing costs are low but what usually happens in
these factories is that they will produce maybe two times or three times your ordered amount and shift
that stuck behind your bag.
So this is just something to remember when you're looking for manufacturers to partner with.
And sometimes it can be a lot easier just looking for a company that's based in maybe the U.S. or the
U.K..
So this is a company called maker's row and they are essentially a flexible factory that can help you
create your products but they're based in the U.S. and they follow all conventional rules.
So you don't have to worry about all of these things that I've just said to you so they're not going
to be ripping your designs off and selling it secretly.
So look for a company that's reputable to build your product.
Be it physical or be it digital.
Make sure that you do a fair amount of due diligence on these companies and ask for some references
of people who they've worked with before who are based in the U.S. or the U.K. that we can feel that
more comfortable working with them.
Now this of course doesn't stop people from cloning your product because once it's on Kickstarter.
Anybody can try and reverse engineer it.
And even if you don't provide all the designs all the specs it doesn't mean that people can't you know
try and figure it out and make it themselves.
But now if you look back to the fidget cube they raised over six million dollars.
All the Clones combined together all the people who've been working on ripping these guys off have gone
nowhere near that figure.
So sometimes it makes sense to be cautious.
But it also makes sense just get your product out there and drive marketing towards it.
You usually do pretty well but it's just good ideas keep these kinds of things in mind when you're creating
your project.
And don't fall into the trap of getting your designs stolen.